{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw9840\paperh8400
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 About:
\b0 \
	This software is designed to convert medical images stored in complicated formats (DICOM or Philips proprietary PAR/REC) to the simple NIfTI format used by popular scientific tools. For DICOM images, simply drop the folder containing the files onto this software. For Philips PAR/REC images, drag and drop the file you wish to convert. This software attempts to preserve spatial orientation and position. However, you should be careful to validate and inspect images. In particular, verify the orientation of 2D slices (relative to 3D volumes) and diffusion tensor gradient directions. \
\

\b License:
\b0 \
Copyright (c) 2014, Chris Rorden\
All rights reserved.\
\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: \
\
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \
\
This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors "as is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the copyright owner or contributors be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.\
\
For more information, see www.mricro.com}
